Let's cover how to enable or disable endpoints and learn what
endpoints are and aren't enabled by default.
Each endpoint can be individually controlled to be enabled or disabled.
Enabling or disabling an endpoint controls whether or not
it's created and registered by Spring Boot and not whether
or not it can be accessed.
As we'll learn shortly,
enabling an endpoint is only one of the steps needed to be able to access it.
It's important to note that by default all actuator endpoints are enabled
and the only exception to this is the shutdown endpoint,
which for security reasons, must be explicitly enabled.
Within the application.properties or the application.yml,
you can control whether or not an endpoint is enabled or
disabled by a configuration property.
The property follows this standard scheme,
management.endpoint .name, we'll talk about what this name means very shortly,
followed by another dot and then enabled and set to true or false
to enable or disable the endpoint respectively.
The name part of the configuration property is the name of the endpoint,
or more formally,
it's ID and you can find the IDs of each standard
built-in endpoints in the Spring docs.
I've included a link to the specific part of the documentation where you
can find these IDs and we've actually already seen this part of the
documentation several times throughout the course,
so I'll go ahead and pull it up quickly,
but we're not going to go into any detail.
I've loaded up the documentation, and as you can see,
there is a list of all of the actuator endpoints included in Spring Boot
Actuator and the first column is labeled ID and this is the ID that you
would use within the configuration property.
Previously I'd mentioned that all endpoints,
except shutdown are enabled by default and this default behavior
can be changed to disabling all endpoints by default and
individually enabling specific endpoints.
Since there is over 10 different built-in endpoints,
this is helpful when you want to enable only a few endpoints.
Rather than list out every endpoint that must be disabled, you can tell Spring Boot Actuator just the ones that you want enabled.